# EngagementCulture

This repository exists to further research on the topic of Engagement Culture, which is the shared underlying assumption that intrinsic motivation creates energy that drives growth (Wang & Degol, 2014) and that dissatisfaction depresses that energy (Herzberg, 2011). The best way to motivate is by increasing satisfaction and decreasing dissatisfaction—not by coercion into compliance. 

The concstruct started as a study for Laura Hearnsberger's doctoral dissertation for Pepperdine University, in response to the notion that school culture could help overcome obstacles to academic performance faced by high-poverty schools. The problem that the study sought to solve was determining what is meant by culture and how schools should shape it to manifest improved academic performance. Even though organizational culture is widely accepted as essential for achieving sustainable success (Kotter & Heskett, 1992; Jung, et al., 2009; Deal & Peterson, 2016; U. S. Department of Education, 2019), what is meant by culture varies (Jung et al., 2009), and identifying culture qualities to improve academic performance is elusive (M.-T. Wang & Degol, 2016).

The purpose of the non-experimental, cross-sectional study was to identify specific characteristics of culture that correlate with academic achievement in high-poverty schools. "Culture" has a lot of different definitions, each one correct, depending on the context. Schools tend to operationalize "culture" as how well-behaved and quiet its students are (Marquez, 2019). Check out the Texas Education Agency's Effective School Framework resources called "Mission, Vision and Values Artifacts" and "Student Rollout: Schoolwide Culture Routine" (https://texasesf.org/esf-in-action/#3.1). 

We define and study culture as shared underlying assumptions. Our definition combines ideas from Deal & Peterson (2016) and Schein & Schein (2017). Deal & Peterson say that culture is the “shared webbing of beliefs, informal folkways, and traditions that infuse work with meaning, passion, and purpose” (p. 2). Schein & Schein say it comprises three levels: artifacts, espoused beliefs and values, and basic underlying assumptions (p. 18). The level of culture that is relevant for engagement culture is basic underlying assumptions, because they drive behavior, whereas espoused beliefs and values are sometimes aspirational and do not necessarily align with the underlying assumptions that inform beliefs and drive behavior (Schein & Schein, 2017). For the original study, artifacts were not considered because the aim was to identify systemic culture qualities that could practically be measured quantitatively for the purpose of improving academic performance. A qualitative study of artifacts in an engagement culture would make an interesting study.

Research around student engagement, hidden culture, drivers of beliefs and actions, and motivation provides the backdrop for this study. 


It is still in its early stages, but the vision is for this to be a place where researchers can find data, literature, topics, problem statements, and methods to support the study and proliferation of engagement culture.

For more information about engagement culture, visit https://EngagementCulture.org
